# Summary of discussion on 20 October 2023

We discussed what we have seen in Axler so far. We mostly talked about
the things you have to have in order to have a vector space; we didn't
talk much about the properties those things had to satisfy.

Axler had discussed:

1. **Numbers**, such as the reals. Numbers come with a binary
   operator, “ $+$ ”, another binary operator, “ $\times$ ”, and two
   disinguished elements, $0$ and $1$, all of which satisfy all the
   properties you expect of those things (Axler 1.3).
   
2. **Vector spaces**. A _real vector space_ is:
   1. A set, $V$;
   2. A binary operator, $+$, called “addition”; 
   3. A map, called “scalar multiplication,” which takes a number and an element of $V$ and produces
      another element of $V$; and
   4. A special element $\mathbf{0}\in V$,
   
   all of which have to satisfy various conditions (those listed in
   Axler 1.19). To say that something is a vector space you have to
   specify **all** of those things and a vector space is **only**
   those things.
   
3. Some **examples** of vector spaces:
   - $\mathbb{R}^n$ for some number $n$. 
     1. The set, $\mathbb{R}^n$, is the set of all lists of numbers of
        length $n$. 
	 2. “Addition,” $+$, is defined by: $(a_1, \dotsc,
        a_n) + (b_1, \dotsc, b_n) = (a_1+b_1, \dotsc, a_n+b_n).$
	 3. scalar multiplication is defined by: $\alpha(a_1, \dotsc,
        a_n) = (\alpha a_1, \dotsc, \alpha a_n).$
     4. The special element $\mathbf{0}$ is $(0, \dotsc, 0)$.
   - $\mathbb{R}^X$ for some set $X$.
     1. The set, $\mathbb{R}^X$, is the set of all functions from $X$
	    to $\mathbb{R}$. 
	 2. $f+g$ is that function such that
	    $(f+g)(x) = f(x) + g(x)$.
	 3. $\alpha f$ is that function such that $(\alpha f)(x) = \alpha
        f(x)$.
	 4. $\mathbf{0}$ is the function $f(x) = 0$ for all $x$.
   
We had some comments on this: 
   
   - A set is just a collection of things. The things have little
     “intrinsic meaning,” they just are. It's the other structure, the
     maps, which give them life. The point about the number 2, for
     example, is that it is one more than 1. 
   
   - We said that to specify a vector space it is necessary to specify
     _all_ the things in the definition: the set, the maps, the
     $\mathbf{0}$. The set $V$ by itself is not a vector space; it's
     just a set. It is true that people often use $V$ as kind of
     synecdoche if the particular operators are clear from the
     context. For example, people say “ $\mathbb{R}^n$ ” to refer the
     vector space in the example above, even though $\mathbb{R}^n$ is
     just a set
   
   - The $+$ in the definition is not the same $+$ as in addition of
     numbers: it's whatever it is that comes with the vector
     space. (Although, later, it will turn out to be related.)
   
   - A binary operator (like the $+$ in the definition of vector
     space) is a map. Its domain is “pairs of elements of $V$” and its
     range is $V$. We write this as $$+\colon V\times V\to V$$.
	 
	 The notation $V\times V$ means “the set of all pairs of elements
     of $V$”.
	 
   - The scalar multiplication is a map whose domain is
     $\mathbb{R}\times V$ and whose range is $V$. That is, it takes a
     a number and an element of $V$, and returns an element of $V$.
   

