Notes on today's meeting.

This is a summary of where I think we got to in answer question 13. The question was:

> Suppose U is a subspace of V such that V/U is finite-dimensional. Prove that V is isomorphic to U × (V/U).

Here's a little diagram. It shows a (two-dimensional) space, V, a (one-dimensional) subspace, U (in blue), and some translates of U (also in blue).

To show that V is isomorphic to U×(V/U), we need to exhibit an invertible linear map V → U×(V/U). Our basic plan is:
1. Find _some_ (hopefully sensible!) linear map V → U×(V/U);
2. Show that this map is invertible.

(NB: Whenever I say “map” from now on I mean “linear map.”)

What would a sensible map V → U×(V/U) look like? It takes an element of V to an element of the product space U×(V/U). An element of U×(U/V) is a pair, (*u*, *q*) — where *u* is an element of the subspace U and *q* is an element of the quotient space U/V. So the map we need will take an element *v* ∈ V (such as the one drawn in red in the next figure) and produce a pair (*u*, *q*) with *u* ∈ U and *q* ∈ V/U.

The intuition here is this. The translates of U “fill out” all of V. So to locate an element *v* ∈ V, one first specifies which translate it is in, and then “where it is in the translate.”. To identify a translate is exactly to give an element *q* ∈ V/U, so that's where *q* comes from. To identify "where it is in the translate" is ... _sort of_ to give an element of U. But _only_ sort of, because there's no way, _a priori_, to identify an element of U with a particular element of some translate of U. In particular, translates don't have origins. (The original one, U, has an origin, of course. But the other translates don't.)

So, in order to say "where in the translate" we are, what we might do is “specify an origin for each translate” and then give the location of *v* with respect to this origin. 

Here is a new figure showing the idea. 

The red *v* is an arbitrary element of V. It lies in the translate *v* + U, as shown. But where in that translate?

Well, if only we had a known, fixed point in this translate – an “origin,” if you like — for example, the one denoted ø in the figure — then we could subtract the location of this “origin” from *v* to get a vector *u* which wholly lies within U. 

If we could do this, then our map would be:

v ↦ (*v* - ø, *v* + U)

(The first element of the pair, *v* - ø, is a vector in V which lies wholly in U; that is, an element of U. The second element, *v* + U, is a translate of U; that is, an element of V/U.

The next problem, then, is to fix this ø. That sounds hard, because, actually, we need one for every translate, since *v* could have ended up in any translate.

The plan we came up with today is intended to let us find a ø for every translate. 

In the next figure, I've drawn a vector *e*₁. (I'll come back to why it's number 1 in a minute.) 

You can see that, in this example, that for every translate, there is always _some_ multiple of *e*₁ which lies in that translate. (“The line through *e*₁ pierces all the translates.”) We'll _define_ ø as that multiple of *e*₁, say α₁ *e*₁, which lies in the translate. 

That is to say: fixing *e*₁ once and for all, then, forever after, whenever we need a special element (an “origin”) of any translate, we can get one by choosing a particular multiple of *e*₁. 

Are we done? No, unfortunately not. How do we choose *e*₁? In the two-dimensional example of the figure, it was clear that all we had to do was to choose a single *e*₁ (and in particular, one which does not lie in U). In general, however, we will need more than one *e*. How do we choose these *e*'s? And how do we know that for every translate, there is a unique linear combination of the *e*'s which lie in that translate? 

That was the next part of the plan!


V ≅ U ⊕ (V/U), only the isomorphism isn't “canonical” (whatever that means). 

Okay, well, what is the universal version of this? That is, what's the version where the isomorphisms _are_ “canonical”? 

I guess we need a definition of “subspace” that 
